# Nginx (`nginx`)

Master:

Develop:

Installs and configures Nginx web-server

**Part of the BAS Ansible Role Collection (BARC)**

## Overview

* Installs the latest stable version of Nginx from Nginx, or optionally, from system packages instead
* Configures main Nginx configuration file using harmonised defaults from supported operating systems
* Configures additional aspects of Nginx, including: logging, SSL/TLS, security, MIME types, Gzip and caching
* SSL/TLS configuration scores an **A+** rating using Qualys SSL Labs SSL Server Test
* Removes default server blocks (virtual hosts) to prevent conflicts
* Configures harmonised structure for server block definition files using sites-available/sites-enabled
* Optionally, configures the system firewall to allow access to Nginx services (HTTP/HTTPS), this is enabled by default
* Provides Ansible templates for generating server blocks for common purposes, including HTTP redirecting to HTTPS

## Quality Assurance

This role uses manual and automated testing to ensure the features offered by this role work as advertised. 
See `tests/README.md` for more information.

## Dependencies

* None

## Requirements

* If generating HTTPS server blocks, using templates provided by this role, a valid certificate/private-key

Certificates, and associated private keys, **MUST** be acquired from a suitable provider and copied to the server for 
use by Nginx. This role will not perform any of these functions for you, including generating the secure server block 
definition file. See the *usage* section for further details on generating server blocks using this role.

* A valid document root

A suitable document root (with or without content) **MUST** be created, populated for use by Nginx . This role will not
perform any of these functions for you, including generating server block definition files. See the *usage* section for 
further details on generating server blocks using this role.

## Limitations

* Some variables in this role cannot be easily overridden

This specifically affects: *webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_path*, *webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_key_path*, 
*nginx_config_core_pid* and *nginx_config_core_user*.

Values for these variables vary on each supported operating system and therefore cannot be defined as variables in 
`defaults/main.yml` (which are universal). Ansible does not support conditionally importing additional variables at 
the same priority of role 'defaults' (i.e. variables defined in `defaults/main.yml`), therefore these variables must be 
set in `vars/` within this role, and conditionally loaded using the 
[include_vars module](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/include_vars_module.html).

Variables set at this priority cannot be easily overridden in playbooks (i.e. using the `vars` option), or in variable 
files (i.e. using the `vars_files` option). In fact only 'extra_vars' set on the command line can override variables of
this precedence.

Given the nature of these variables, it is not expected likely users will need (or want) to changes the values for these
variables, and therefore the difficultly needed to override them is considered an acceptable, and not significant 
limitation. However, if other variables need to be defined in this way this may need to revisited in the future.

*This limitation is **NOT** considered to be significant. Solutions will **NOT** be actively pursued.*
*Pull requests to address this will be considered.*

See the 
[Ansible Documentation](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/playbooks_variables.html#variable-precedence-where-should-i-put-a-variable) 
for further details on variable precedence.

See [BARC-93](https://jira.ceh.ac.uk/browse/BARC-93) for further details.

* Non-system sources cannot be used for installing Nginx on CentOS

There is no Nginx package available from system package sources on CentOS. Therefore, non-system sources will always be 
used. If this is unacceptable you **MUST** use another role.

*This limitation is **NOT** considered to be significant. Solutions will **NOT** be actively pursued.*
*Pull requests to address this will be considered.*

See [BARC-94](https://jira.ceh.ac.uk/browse/BARC-94) for further details.

* Firewall rules generated by this role assume a single HTTP port and a single HTTPS will be used

In situations where you configure multiple server blocks to listen on multiple ports (i.e server block A listens on 
ports 80/443 and server B listens on ports 81/444), the firewall rules, generated by this role within firewall 
services, will not include additional ports (i.e. only ports 80/443 will be included).

This can be overcome by generating custom firewall services with additional rules allowing extra ports, or modifying 
the system firewall directly (not recommended). Care must be taken to use unique firewall service names, otherwise this
role will clobber firewall service definition files, and firewall configurations.

Though this is relatively simple limitation to fix within templates in this role, it is not a priority, as is BAS 
projects, each project uses its own web-servers hosted behind a load balancer. Therefore only one server block (for each 
particular project), and one set of ports, is needed.

*This limitation is **NOT** considered to be significant. Solutions will **NOT** be actively pursued.*
*Pull requests to address this will be considered.*

See [BARC-95](https://jira.ceh.ac.uk/browse/BARC-95) for further details.

* Headers set in server blocks cancel out headers set at higher levels

Nginx supports adding arbitrary headers at multiple levels (i.e. core config, HTTP block, server blocks) - however if
*any* headers are set at a lower level, higher level headers will be ignored.

I.e. If you set headers *a* and *b* in the HTTP block and then header *c* in a server block, only header *c* would be
included in the final response.

Because of this limitation, headers **MUST NOT** be set in server blocks, as numerous headers are set in the HTTP block
which are needed to deliver features of this role (security headers for example).

*This limitation is considered to be significant. Solutions will be actively pursued.*
*Pull requests to address this will be gratefully considered and given priority.*

See the [Nagios documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_headers_module.html#add_header) for more 
information on this issue.

See [BARC-96](https://jira.ceh.ac.uk/browse/BARC-96) for further details.

* Server block definition file templates provided by this role assume server blocks will be the 'default server'

Nginx server blocks can declare they are the 'default server' for their respective listening port (e.g. default server 
for port 80). Only one server block **SHOULD** declare this per listening port.

The server block definition file templates provided this role (for all use-cases) hard-code this declaration, and do 
not make it optional. This means where multiple server blocks are defined, which listen on the same port (i.e. you are
using Host based server identification to support multiple servers on a single machine), the templates provided by this 
role are unsuitable.

To overcome this limitation either the templates provided by this role would need to be modified, or an alternative 
method will need to be used to generate definition files.

Though this is relatively simple limitation to fix within templates in this role, it is not a priority, as is BAS 
projects, each project uses its own web-servers hosted behind a load balancer. Therefore only one server block (for each 
particular project) is needed.

*This limitation is **NOT** considered to be significant. Solutions will **NOT** be actively pursued.*
*Pull requests to address this will be considered.*

See [BARC-97](https://jira.ceh.ac.uk/browse/BARC-97) for further details.

* Server blocks named after distribution default server blocks (i.e. same file-name/location) cannot be used

Specifically server blocks cannot be made at any of these paths:

On *Ubuntu* machines:

* `/etc/nginx/sites-available/default`

On *CentOS* machines:

* `/etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf`
* `/etc/nginx/conf.d/example-ssl.conf`

*This limitation is **NOT** considered to be significant. Solutions will **NOT** be actively pursued.*
*Pull requests to address this will be considered.*

See [BARC-91](https://jira.ceh.ac.uk/browse/BARC-91) for further details.

* Manual tests are inelegant, requiring uncommenting sections in playbooks and Vagrant

This role has a higher than average number of distinct test scenarios, mostly relating to the different types of 
server blocks that are used. Each scenario carries a significant overhead as two virtual machines are needed, as well 
as additional test machines in most circumstances. Running all of these virtual machines at once requires a significant
amount of resources, which are typically unavailable.

for this reason, commenting is used to prevent all virtual machines being built by Vagrant, the idea being when running
a scenario the relevant VMs will be uncommented. This means the Ansible playbook and inventory need to be suitably 
structured not to rely on all VMs always being available. This has lead to repetition of some tests for convenience.

Ideally the number of scenarios this role supports would be reduced to a more typical number (2-3), however this is 
unlikely. Therefore is considered an ongoing issue, but of low importance, since it only affects developers of this 
role, not end-users.

*This limitation is **NOT** considered to be significant. However solutions will be actively pursued.*
*Pull requests to address this will be considered.*

See [BARC-92](https://jira.ceh.ac.uk/browse/BARC-92) for further details.

## Usage

### Non-system packages

It is a convention of BARC roles to use the latest version of packages. Where a suitable non-system package source is 
available it will be used. Suitable non-system packages require a reputable, maintainer, typically a company or well 
respected individual. If this is for some reason unsuitable, it is possible to only use system packages by setting the 
*BARC_use_non_system_package_sources* variable to `false`.

Note: As the package policy varies between system and non-system package sources, and between operating systems, the 
version of installed packages is variable.

Note: In this role, there is no Nginx package available on CentOS without using non-system packages, see the 
*Limitations* section for more information.

### Firewall configuration

This role assumes the machine it is applied to is using a system firewall. By default this role will generate a firewall 
service relevant to Nginx and automatically enable and persist this service to allow access to Nginx's services.

Specifically:

* On CentOS machines:
    * A set of firewalld firewall services will be generated
    * Each firewall service will contain rules for a single firewall scenario
    * This service will be enabled persistently
    * The firewall service is reloaded
* On Ubuntu machines:
    * A UFW firewall application will be generated (overriding the default firewall application for Nginx)
    * This application contains rules for all firewall scenarios
    * This application will be enabled
    * The firewall service is reloaded

Custom generated firewall services are used to ensure if custom listening ports are used (i.e. not ports 80/443) rules
will reflect the ports that are used.

Multiple firewall scenarios are available within this role:

* *nginx-http*
    * Enables HTTP connections only on the port set by the *nginx_firewall_port_http* variable
* *nginx-https*
    * Enables HTTPS connections only on the port set by the *nginx_firewall_port_https* variable
* *nginx-http-https*
    * Enables HTTP connections on the port set by the *nginx_firewall_port_http* variable
    * Enables HTTPS connections only on the port set by the *nginx_firewall_port_https* variable

This role will only enable one scenario, set by the *webserver_firewall_rule* variable. When setting this variable do
not include the `nginx-` prefix (i.e. to use *nginx-http* set the *webserver_firewall_rule* variable to `http`).

Following the principle of least privilege, the minimum number of firewall rules should be enabled. This means if you 
are only using HTTP server blocks, for example, the *nginx-https* scenario **SHOULD** be used over the 
*nginx-http-https* scenario. See the *Variables* section for the scenario enabled by default.

Note: If you are using BAS maintained [operating system images](https://github.com/antarctica/packer-vm-templates) this
configuration is fully supported and should be seamless. In other cases additional configuration may be needed depending
on how the system firewall has been configured.

Note: If no system firewall is used, you **MUST** skip the  **BARC_CONFIGURE_FIREWALL** tag when using this role to 
skip the firewall configuration tasks which will otherwise fail.

### Nginx configuration files

Nginx uses a single configuration file, `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`, which controls core Nginx settings (such as the user 
the web-server runs as), web-server features such as Gzip and server blocks (virtual hosts) along with all the various 
options each of these sections can contain.

To save having to specify all of these configuration in a single file, which would be hard to read, let alone manage 
using provisioning tools, Nginx supports including additional files, within the main configuration file. These 
additional files are essentially configuration fragments, just stored in separate files. At run time, Nginx will combine
these fragments to create a complete configuration file.

Note: Nginx will not detect changes to its main, or fragment configuration files once started. If changes are made, the
Nginx service will need to be reloaded.

Within this role, the use of includes and file fragments is used extensively and is strongly encouraged. Importantly 
Nginx supports specifying *all* files at a given path should be included, rather than specifying each specifically by
file-name. This means some feature can configure its own configuration options, it its own file, without needing to
alter any other files to be included. This makes automatic provisioning significantly easier in terms of this main role
not needing to be aware of any of its children (roles which configure specific features).

The following directory structure is used for constructing the Nginx configuration file.

```
├── conf.d           <-- Contains Module and additional configuration files (directory)
│   ├── http         <-- Contains Additional configuration files for the 'http' module
│   │   ├── *.conf   <-- Additional configuration file
│   └── *.conf       <-- Module configuration file
└── nginx.conf.j2    <-- Main configuration file
```

Note: Sever blocks are also included in the main configuration, but are discussed in their own section later on.

Note: Unlike Apache, Nginx does not support a concept similar to `.htaccess` files, everything must be included in the 
main Nginx configuration file at some point.

#### Main configuration file

The main Nginx configuration file, `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`, is purposely designed to be as minimal as possible. Other
than defining process information, this file simply includes `*.conf` files within `/etc/nginx/conf.d/*.conf`, termed 
*module* configuration files in this role.

Additional configuration options **SHOULD NOT** be set in this file. Instead such options **SHOULD** be set within a 
module configuration file, or an additional configuration file included by a module configuration file.

#### Module configuration files

Module configuration files are high level configuration options, usually specifying a main directive, such as 'http'.
Each module consists of a single module block, such as (for the 'http' module):

```
http {
    # Module configuration
}
```

Typically there will only be a single module, 'http' with a configuration file '/etc/nginx/conf.d/http.conf'. Apart 
from some basic configuration options, this file mainly loads additional configuration files within 
`/etc/nginx/conf.d/http/*.conf` and server block definition files within `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/*`.

Additional configuration options for the 'http' module (and for other modules, except basic settings) **SHOULD NOT** be 
set in module configuration files. Instead such options **SHOULD** be set within an additional configuration file.

#### Additional configuration files

Additional configuration files are lower level, feature specific, configuration options, usually focusing on a 
particular, non-core, feature such as Gzip or TLS/SSL.

Each feature **SHOULD** be contained in a separate file to allow easy management when using automated provisioning.
This role includes a number of 'common' additional configuration files. Others may be added by additional roles.

Additional files included in this role:

* In the 'http' module:
    * `logging.conf` - Enables access and error logging by default
    * `tls.conf` - Sets defaults for TLS/SSL connections where used in server blocks
    * `mime.conf` - Registers MIME types and sets a default
    * `content.conf` - Sets default character encoding
    * `gzip.conf` - Enables Gzip compression by default

* In server block templates:
    * `meta-files.conf` - Suppress logging unsuccessful requests for missing, non-critical, files such as favicons
    * `static-caching` - Adds caching for various types of static content (images, CSS, JS, etc.)

More information on these additional sections may be provided in other sub-sections in this README.

Note: Server block definitions **SHOULD NOT** be specified as additional configuration files. Instead, all definition 
files **SHOULD** be specified in `/etc/nginx/sites-available`, with 'enabled' server blocks symbolically linked to 
`/etc/nginx/site-enabled`. Server block definitions are discussed in more detail in their own section later on.

### Logging

This role includes additional options to:

* Define, explicitly, a 'default' logging format for access logs which is the same as the built-in 'combined' format
* Define a logging filter to prevent successful requests being logged
* Maintain an error log, which will log server errors of severity 'warning' and above
* Maintain an access log, which will only log unsuccessful requests (i.e. 4XX/5XX errors)

### MIME types

This role includes additional options to set the list of know MIME types and set a default value.

### TLS/SSL configuration

This role includes additional options for improving the, security/robustness and efficiency of secure connections. 
These additional options give an **A+** rating using Qualys SSL Labs SSL Server Test.

Note: These additional options will apply to any server block which enables TLS/SSL support, unless directly overridden.

Note: If you are BAS staff you **SHOULD NOT** opt-out of these additional options. Instead you should contact the Web & 
Applications Team or BAS ICT to discuss your requirements.

#### Custom DH parameters

Part of the TLS/SSL hardening options used in this role include using custom DH parameters. This role uses DP 
parameters generated by [18F](https://18f.gsa.gov/), 
specifically [this file](https://github.com/fisma-ready/nginx/blob/master/ssl/dhparam2048.pem).

More information on the implications this has can be found [here](http://security.stackexchange.com/a/43356).

### TLS/SSL certificates

Note: You **MUST** enable private key material is suitably protected. These ownership and permission settings are
recommendations only. You **MUST** seek professional advice if you are unsure if you are adequately protecting private
key material.

Certificates, and their private keys, **SHOULD** be located in operating system specific conventional defaults:

* On CentOS machines:
    * Certificates will be stored in: `/etc/pki/tls/certs`
    * Certificate private keys will be stored in: `/etc/pki/tls/private`
* On Ubuntu machines:
    * Certificates will be stored in: `/etc/ssl/certs`
    * Certificate private keys will be stored in: `/etc/ssl/private`

Certificates and private keys **SHOULD** be stored be owned by the root user with permissions of *(0)600*.

Note: In future versions of this role, the location of certificates and private keys may be harmonised to the CentOS
defaults.

If you are BAS staff, and are using 'core' certificates (i.e. any certificate for the `bas.ac.uk` domain), you **MUST** 
contact the Web & Applications Team or ICT to ensure you are following best practice. Otherwise you **SHOULD** seek 
advice if you are at all unsure.

Information Services provides 'core' certificates for the primary BAS domain `(www).bas.ac.uk` and sub-domains: 
`*.web.bas.ac.uk`, `*.data.bas.ac.uk`, `api.bas.ac.uk`, etc. This, and certificates for other domains are maintained by 
the Web & Applications Team. See the 
[BAS Certificate Store](https://stash.ceh.ac.uk/projects/BASWEB/repos/porcupine/browse) project for more information 
and instructions for using these 'core' certificates.

For other domains, please contact the Web & Applications Team or BAS ICT to discuss your requirements, as there are 
NERC guidelines applicable to purchasing certificates.

### Security headers

This role includes additional options improving security in terms of how resources from this server can be used.
See `templates/etc/nginx/conf.d/http/security.conf.j2` for more information.

### Default character encoding

This role includes additional options for setting `utf-8` as the default character encoding.

### Gzip

This role includes additional options for configuring Gzip compression.

The range of mime types to be compressed are set by the *webserver_config_gzip_types* variable. Other basic options are
set in the included configuration file.

#### Gzip with TLS

Due to known vulnerabilities [1] with combining Gzip with TLS, this role disables Gzip in included secure server block 
templates. This is a precautionary measure and may not be sufficiently concerning in all situations, compared to the 
missed benefits Gzip brings.

It is therefore your decision whether to use Gzip with TLS, however you should ensure you are fully aware of the 
consequences in doing so. If you wish to do so, set the `nginx_server_blocks_tls_enable_gzip` variable to `"on"`.

If you are BAS staff, contact the Web & Applications Team or BAS ICT to discuss your requirements.

[1] https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=773332

### Server Blocks (Virtual Hosts)

Server blocks, known generically as Virtual Hosts in Apache, specify 'servers' which will listen on a set of ports and 
process requests. Server blocks can be named, if multiple websites are hosted on a single machine. Less commonly, 
different ports can be used for each 'server' to avoid using names.

Each server block can perform a variety of roles, for example serving a static website, dynamic content using a CGI 
proxy, or reverse proxying requests to another application, such as Tomcat. Features such as authentication, caching 
and resource pooling can be used alongside any of these roles as needed.

Each 'server' consists of a server block, which is simply:

```
server {
    # Server configuration
}
```

Each server block **SHOULD** be specified in its own file in `/etc/nginx/sites-available/`. Server blocks which should 
be used **MUST** be symbolically linked to `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/`. Requiring this extra step allows easy control 
over which servers are used, without having to comment out definitions files or moving definition files elsewhere.

You **SHOULD** read these resources if you are using 'custom' server blocks:

* [Common pitfalls](https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/start/topics/tutorials/config_pitfalls/) to avoid common 
mistakes
* [Nginx directly](https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/start/) for pre-written samples for a range of use-cases 

Note: This role does not manage server block definitions directly. Templates, discussed later, for generating common 
server blocks are provided by this role, but tasks to generate them and manage document roots, certificates, etc. need 
to be implemented outside of this role.

Note: Server block definition files **MUST NOT** use a file extension or they won't be included in the Nginx 
configuration file, even when enabled.

Note: Don't name definition files with any of these, exact, names as this role will remove them (these are default 
definitions installed by Nginx, but which when enabled, may cause conflicts):

On *Ubuntu* machines:

* `/etc/nginx/sites-available/default`

On *CentOS* machines:

* `/etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf`
* `/etc/nginx/conf.d/example-ssl.conf`

See the *limitations* section for more information.

#### Server block templates

Despite the wide range of possible roles for 'servers', typically roles are not that unique. This role therefore 
provides a set of Ansible templates for generating server blocks for these common roles.

Note: Remember this role does not directly manage server blocks, it simply provides templates for use in external tasks.

These templates purposely do not cater to every role and use-case, there are simply too many. Therefore it is expected
server blocks, not based on templates from this role, will be used as needed. This role will therefore not interfere
with server blocks, regardless of whether they are based on templates from this role or not.

Templates provided by this role are located in `templates/etc/nginx/sites-available/`, examples of using them are shown 
in the *Typical Playbook* sub-section. A summary is provided in each template, though it should be fairly obvious what 
is happening by reading each file.

Server block templates are configured to include relevant additional configuration files, see the *Additional 
configuration files* sub-section for more information.

#### Document root

Document roots should be accessible to the web-server group (`www-data` on Ubuntu machines, `nginx` on CentOS), with
permissions *(0)775* (recursive) recommended for directories and *(0)664* for files.

Note: Depending on your use case these recommended permissions may not be suitable. If in doubt use common sense when
setting permissions. If you are handling any sensitive information, and you are BAS staff, contact the Web & 
Applications Team or ICT for additional guidance.

Note: If using server-block templates from this role, ensure the document root exists and has the correct permissions 
and ownership before generating the template.

#### TLS certificates

See the *Typical playbook* section for examples of tasks to do this.

Note: If using server-block templates from this role, ensure any certificates and private keys have been uploaded to 
the machine with the correct permissions and ownership. See the *TLS/SSL certificates* sub-section for more information.

#### Meta files

Some clients, mostly web-browsers, will make requests for a conventional, meta, files such as `favicon` or `robots.txt`.
This role includes an additional configuration file, `server-blocks/meta-files.conf`, to suppress logging unsuccessful 
requests for these files where they are missing.

See `templates/etc/nginx/conf.d/server-blocks/meta-files.conf.j2` in this role for a list of meta files covered.

Note: This additional configuration does not prevent these meta files being used, it simply ignores errors where they
don't.

Note: If using server-block templates from this role, this additional configuration file will be included automatically.
To prevent this, copy the relevant template and adjust the include statement as necessary. Custom server-blocks can
include this additional configuration file directly if desired.

#### Static caching

This role includes additional options for configuring the caching of static content.

This includes: images, audio, video, web-fonts RSS feeds, CSS and JS. Various cache times are used for each media type.

Known dynamic content is explicitly excluded from caching, this includes: HTML, XML and JSON. You can adjust this if
needed, or perform caching at a lower or higher level (within applications, or using a caching layer, respectively).

Note: By default CSS and JS will be cached for 1 year. 'Cache-busting' will therefore be needed if CSS/JS are expected
to change during this time. Various build tools and frameworks can automate this process if needed.

Note: If using server-block templates from this role, this additional configuration file will be included automatically.
To prevent this, copy the relevant template and adjust the include statement as necessary. Custom server-blocks can
include this additional configuration file directly if desired.

### Typical playbook

```yaml
---

# Playbook for a non-secure web-server
# I.e. for an app server sitting behind a load balancer performing TLS/SSL termination
- name: setup nginx web-server and server block for application
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  vars:
    webserver_virtual_hosts_document_root: /app/public
  roles:
    - BARC.nginx
  tasks:
    - name: generate server block definition files
      template:
         src="roles/nginx/templates/etc/nginx/sites-available/server-http.j2"
        dest="/etc/nginx/sites-available/app-http"
    - name: enable server block definition files
      file:
          src="/etc/nginx/sites-available/app-http"
         dest="/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/app-http"
        state=link
      notify: Restart Nginx
    handlers:
      - include: roles/nginx/handlers/main.yml

# Playbook for a secure web-server
# I.e. for a standalone server exposed directly to the public internet
# Real certificates would obviously normally be used
- name: setup nginx web-server and secure server block for application
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  vars:
    webserver_virtual_hosts_document_root: /app/public
    webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_file: tls-cert-snakeoil.crt
    webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_key_file: tls-cert-snakeoil.key
  roles:
    - BARC.nginx
  tasks:
    - name: copy and secure snake-oil certificate file and key for testing
      copy:
        src="{{ item.source }}"
        dest="{{ item.dest }}"
        mode=0600
      with_items:
        -
          source: certificates/snakeoil/tls-cert-snakeoil.crt
          dest: "{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_path }}/{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_file }}"
        -
          source: certificates/snakeoil/tls-cert-snakeoil.key
          dest: "{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_path }}/{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_key_file }}"
    - name: generate server block definition files
      template:
         src="roles/nginx/templates/etc/nginx/sites-available/{{ item.src }}.j2"
        dest="/etc/nginx/sites-available/{{ item.dest }}"
      with_items:
        -
          src: server-block-http-to-https
          dest: app-http-redirect
        -
          src: server-block-https
          dest: app-https
    - name: enable server block definition files
      file:
          src="/etc/nginx/sites-available/{{ item }}"
         dest="/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/{{ item }}"
        state=link
      with_items:
        - app-http-redirect
        - app-https
      notify: Restart Nginx
    handlers:
      - include: roles/nginx/handlers/main.yml
```

### Tags

BARC roles use standardised tags to control which aspects of an environment are changed by roles. Where relevant, tags
will be applied at a role, or task(s) level, as indicated below.

This role uses the following tags, for various tasks:

* [**BARC_CONFIGURE**](https://antarctica.hackpad.com/BARC-Standardised-Tags-AviQxxiBa3y#:h=BARC_CONFIGURE)
* [**BARC_CONFIGURE_PACKAGE**](https://antarctica.hackpad.com/BARC-Standardised-Tags-AviQxxiBa3y#:h=BARC_CONFIGURE_PACKAGE)
* [**BARC_CONFIGURE_FIREWALL**](https://antarctica.hackpad.com/BARC-Standardised-Tags-AviQxxiBa3y#:h=BARC_CONFIGURE_FIREWALL)
* [**BARC_INSTALL_PACKAGES**](https://antarctica.hackpad.com/BARC-Standardised-Tags-AviQxxiBa3y#:h=BARC_INSTALL_PACKAGE)

### Variables

#### *os_tls_certificates_path*

* **MAY** be specified
* Species the path to the directory used for containing TLS certificate files, as determined by the operating system
* Values **MUST** be a valid system path, as determined by the operating system
* Values **MUST NOT** include a trailing slash (`/`)
* Values **MUST** use absolute paths
* The default value, which varies depending on the machine operating system, is a conventional default, other values 
**SHOULD NOT** be used without good reason
* The default value for this variable is set as a role variable, rather than a role default variable, this has 
implications if overriding this value, see the *Limitations* section for more information
* Default:
    * `/etc/pki/tls/certs` - CentOS
    * `/etc/ssl/certs` - Ubuntu

### *os_tls_keys_path*

* **MAY** be specified
* Species the path to the directory used for containing TLS certificate private key files, as determined by the 
operating system
* Values **MUST** be a valid system path, as determined by the operating system
* Values **MUST NOT** include a trailing slash (`/`)
* Values **MUST** use absolute paths
* The default value, which varies depending on the machine operating system, is a conventional default, other values 
**SHOULD NOT** be used without good reason
* The default value for this variable is set as a role variable, rather than a role default variable, this has 
implications if overriding this value, see the *Limitations* section for more information
* Default:
    * `/etc/pki/tls/private` - CentOS
    * `/etc/ssl/private` - Ubuntu

#### *webserver_listening_port_http*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies the port on which web-servers will listen for non-secure (HTTP) requests
* Values **MUST** be a valid system port, as determined by the operating system
* The default value, `80`, is a conventional default, other values **SHOULD NOT** be used without good reason
* Default: `80`

#### *webserver_listening_port_https*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies the port on which web-servers will listen for secure (HTTPS) requests
* Values **MUST** be a valid system port, as determined by the operating system
* The default value, `443`, is a conventional default, other values **SHOULD NOT** be used without good reason
* Default: `443`

#### *webserver_firewall_rule*

* **SHOULD** be specified
* Specifies the name of the firewall rule to be enabled to allow access to web-server services
* See the *Firewall configuration* section for more information on how to set this variable
* Values **MUST** be a valid system firewall service, as determined by the operating system firewall
* Default: `http-https`

### *webserver_config_gzip_types*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies a list of MIME types Gzip compression will be applied to
* Structured as a list of items, with each item having the following properties:
    * Item values **MUST** be valid MIME types, as determined by the web server
* Defaults:
```
- text/plain
- text/css
- text/xml
- application/xml
- application/xml+rss
- application/rss+xml
- text/javascript
- application/x-javascript
```

#### *webserver_virtual_hosts_listening_port_http*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies the port on which virtual hosts will listen for non-secure (HTTP) requests
* Values **MUST** be a valid system port, as determined by the operating system
* Values **MUST** be unique for each virtual host where the value of *webserver_virtual_hosts_server_name* is 
the same
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_listening_port_http* variable
* The fallback value, `80`, is a conventional default, it will be used where this variable is not defined
* Default: `{{ webserver_listening_port_http | default('80') }}`

#### *webserver_virtual_hosts_listening_port_https*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies the port on which virtual hosts will listen for secure (HTTPS) requests
* Values **MUST** be a valid system port, as determined by the operating system
* Values **MUST** be unique for each virtual host where the value of *webserver_virtual_hosts_server_name* is 
the same
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_listening_port_https* variable
* The fallback value, `443`, is a conventional default, it will be used where this variable is not defined
* Default: `{{ webserver_listening_port_https | default('443') }}`

#### *webserver_virtual_hosts_server_name*

* **MAY** be specified where the value is suitably generic, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* This variable is undefined (commented out) by default to allow implementation specific defaults to be used, however
if the value for the *nginx_server_blocks_server_name* variable is a universal value, this variable should be defined 
(uncommented) will be used automatically instead
* Specifies the logical name of each virtual host
* Values **MUST** be valid virtual host server names, as determined by the web server
* Values **MUST** be unique for each server block where the values of 
*webserver_virtual_hosts_listening_port_http* and *webserver_virtual_hosts_listening_port_https* are the 
same
* Default: #`` - Undefined variable, with an empty string as its value if defined

#### *webserver_virtual_hosts_document_root*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies the logical root of the virtual host
* Values **MUST** be a valid system path, as determined by the web server
* Values **MUST NOT** include a trailing slash (`/`)
* Values **SHOULD** use absolute paths to avoid confusion
* The default value, `/var/www/html`, is a conventional default, other values **SHOULD NOT** be used without good reason
* Default: `/var/www/html`

#### *webserver_virtual_hosts_document_indexes*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies a list of files that will be used as an index document
* Structured as a list of items, with each item having the following properties:
    * Item values **MUST** be valid file names, including any file extension, as determined by the web server
* The default item values, are conventional defaults, other values **SHOULD NOT** be used without good reason
* Defaults:
```
- index.html
```

#### *webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_path*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies the path to the directory containing the certificate file set by the 
*webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_file* variable
* Values **MUST** be a valid system path, as determined by the web server
* Values **MUST NOT** include a trailing slash (`/`)
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *os_tls_certificates_path* variable
* Default: `{{ os_tls_certificates_path }}`

#### *webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_file*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies the file name of the certificate in the directory set by the 
*webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_path* variable
* Values **MUST** be a valid system file, including any file extension, as determined by the web server
* Default: `cert.crt`

#### *webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_key_path*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies the path to the directory containing the certificate private key file set by the 
*webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_key_file* variable
* Values **MUST** be a valid system path, as determined by the web server
* Values **MUST NOT** include a trailing slash (`/`)
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *tls_keys_path* variable
* Default: `{{ tls_keys_path }}`

#### *webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_key_file*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies the file name of the certificate private key in the directory set by the 
*webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_key_path* variable
* Values **MUST** be a valid system file, including any file extension, as determined by the web server
* Default: `cert.key`

#### *nginx_config_core_pid*

* **MAY** be specified
* Species the file in which the Nginx process id will be stored
* See [Nginx documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#pid) for more information
* Values **MUST** be a valid system path and file, including any file extension, as determined by Nginx
* Values **MUST** use absolute paths
* The default value, which varies depending on the machine operating system, is a conventional default, other values 
**SHOULD NOT** be used without good reason
* The default value for this variable is set as a role variable, rather than a role default variable, this has 
implications if overriding this value, see the *Limitations* section for more information
* Default:
    * `/var/run/nginx.pid` - CentOS
    * `/run/nginx.pid` - Ubuntu

### *nginx_config_core_user*

* **MAY** be specified
* Species the operating system Nginx will run as
* See [Nginx documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#user) for more information
* Values **MUST** correspond with a valid system user, as determined by the operating system
* The default value, which varies depending on the machine operating system, is a conventional default, other values 
**SHOULD NOT** be used without good reason
* The default value for this variable is set as a role variable, rather than a role default variable, this has 
implications if overriding this value, see the *Limitations* section for more information
* Default:
    * `nginx` - CentOS
    * `www-data` - Ubuntu

#### *nginx_firewall_port_http*

* **MAY** be specified where the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* Specifies the port on which Nginx will listen for non-secure (HTTP) requests, used for generating firewall rules
* Values **MUST** be a valid system port, as determined by the operating system
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_listening_port_http* variable
* Default: `{{ webserver_listening_port_http }}`

#### *nginx_firewall_port_https*

* **MAY** be specified where the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* Specifies the port on which Nginx will listen for secure (HTTPS) requests, used for generating firewall rules
* Values **MUST** be a valid system port, as determined by the operating system
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_listening_port_https* variable
* Default: `{{ webserver_listening_port_https }}`

#### *nginx_firewall_rule*

* **MAY** be specified where the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* Specifies the name of the firewall rule to be enabled to allow access to Nginx's services
* See the *Firewall configuration* section for more information on how to set this variable
* Values **MUST** be a valid system firewall service, as determined by the operating system firewall
* By default, the value of this variable is partially inherited from the *webserver_firewall_rule* variable
* Default: `nginx-{{ webserver_firewall_rule }}`

#### *nginx_config_gzip_enable_gzip*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies whether Gzip compression should be applied to responses
* See [Nginx documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_gzip_module.html#gzip) for more information
* Values **MUST** use one of these options, as determined by Nginx:
  * `on`
  * `off`
* Values **MUST** be quoted to prevent Ansible coercing values to True/False which is invalid for this variable
* Default: `on`

### *nginx_config_gzip_types*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies a list of MIME types Gzip compression will be applied to
* Structured as a list of items, with each item having the following properties:
    * Item values **MUST** be valid MIME types, as determined by Nginx
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_config_gzip_types* variable
* Default: `{{ webserver_config_gzip_types }}`

#### *nginx_server_blocks_listening_port_http*

* **MAY** be specified where the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* Specifies the port on which server blocks will listen for non-secure (HTTP) requests
* Values **MUST** be a valid system port, as determined by the operating system
* Values **MUST** be unique for each server block where the value of *nginx_server_blocks_server_name* is the 
same
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_virtual_hosts_listening_port_http* variable
* Default: `{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_listening_port_http }}`

#### *nginx_server_blocks_listening_port_https*

* **MAY** be specified where the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* Specifies the port on which server blocks will listen for secure (HTTPS) requests
* Values **MUST** be a valid system port, as determined by the operating system
* Values **MUST** be unique for each server block where the value of *nginx_server_blocks_server_name* is the 
same
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_virtual_hosts_listening_port_https* variable
* Default: `{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_listening_port_https }}`

#### *nginx_server_blocks_server_name*

* **MAY** be specified where the value for the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be 
specified
* This variable's generic counterpart, *webserver_virtual_hosts_server_name*, is undefined (commented out) by default 
to allow implementation specific defaults (this variable) to be used, however if the value for this variable is a 
universal value, the generic variable should be defined (uncommented) and will be used automatically instead 
* Specifies the logical name of the server block
* See [Nginx documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#server_name) for more information
* Values **MUST** be valid server block server names, as determined by Nginx
* Values **MUST** be unique for each server block where the values of *nginx_server_blocks_listening_port_http* 
and *nginx_server_blocks_listening_port_https* are the same
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_virtual_hosts_server_name* variable
* The fallback value, `_`, will be used where this variable is not defined
* Default: `{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_server_name | default('_') }}`

#### *nginx_server_blocks_root*

* **MAY** be specified where the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* Specifies the logical root of the server block
* See [Nginx documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#root) for more information
* Values **MUST** be a valid system path, as determined by Nginx
* Values **MUST NOT** include a trailing slash (`/`)
* Values **MUST** use absolute paths
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_virtual_hosts_document_root* variable
* Default: `{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_document_root }}`

#### *nginx_server_blocks_indexes*

* **MAY** be specified where the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* Specifies a list of files that will be used as an index document
* See [Nginx documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_index_module.html) for more information
* Structured as a list of items, with each item having the following properties:
    * Item values **MUST** be valid file names, including any extension, as determined by Nginx
* By default, the values of this variable are inherited from the *webserver_virtual_hosts_document_indexes* variable
* Default: `{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_document_indexes }}`

#### *nginx_server_blocks_tls_certificate_path*

* **MAY** be specified where the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* Specifies the path to the directory containing the certificate file set by the 
*nginx_server_blocks_tls_certificate_file* variable
* Values **MUST** be a valid system path, as determined by Nginx
* Values **MUST NOT** include a trailing slash (`/`)
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_path* variable
* Default: `{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_path }}`

#### *nginx_server_blocks_tls_certificate_file*

* **MAY** be specified where the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* Specifies the file name of the certificate in the directory set by the 
*nginx_server_blocks_tls_certificate_path* variable
* Values **MUST** be a valid system file, including any file extension, as determined by Nginx
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_file* variable
* Default: `{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_certificate_file }}`

#### *nginx_server_blocks_tls_key_path*

* **MAY** be specified where the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* Specifies the path to the directory containing the certificate private key file set by the 
*nginx_server_blocks_tls_key_file* variable
* Values **MUST** be a valid system path, as determined by Nginx
* Values **MUST NOT** include a trailing slash (`/`)
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_key_path* variable
* Default: `{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_key_path }}`

#### *nginx_server_blocks_tls_key_file*

* **MAY** be specified where the related generic variable is unsuitable, otherwise this **SHOULD NOT** be specified
* Specifies the file name of the certificate private key in the directory set by the 
*nginx_server_blocks_tls_key_path* variable
* Values **MUST** be a valid system file, including any file extension, as determined by Nginx
* By default, the value of this variable is inherited from the *webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_key_file* variable
* Default: `{{ webserver_virtual_hosts_tls_key_file }}`

#### *nginx_server_blocks_tls_enable_gzip*

* **MAY** be specified
* Specifies whether Gzip compression is enabled using TLS
* See [Nginx documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_gzip_module.html#gzip) for more information
* There are specific concerns when using TLS with Gzip, see the *Gzip with TLS* sub-section for more information
* Values **MUST** use one of these options, as determined by Nginx:
  * `on`
  * `off`
* Values **MUST** be quoted to prevent Ansible coercing values to True/False which is invalid for this variable
* Default: `off`

## Developing

### Issue tracking

Issues, bugs, improvements, questions, suggestions and other tasks related to this package are managed through the 
[BAS Ansible Role Collection](https://jira.ceh.ac.uk/projects/BARC) (BARC) project on Jira.

This service is currently only available to BAS or NERC staff, although external collaborators can be added on request.
See our contributing policy for more information.

### Source code

All changes should be committed, via pull request, to the canonical repository, which for this project is:

`ssh://git@stash.ceh.ac.uk:7999/barc/nginx.git`

A mirror of this repository is maintained on GitHub. Changes are automatically pushed from the canonical repository to
this mirror, in a one-way process.

`git@github.com:antarctica/ansible-nginx.git`

Note: The canonical repository is only accessible within the NERC firewall. External collaborators, please make pull 
requests against the mirrored GitHub repository and these will be merged as appropriate.

### Contributing policy

This project welcomes contributions, see `CONTRIBUTING.md` for our general policy.

The [Git flow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow/) 
workflow is used to manage the development of this project:

* Discrete changes should be made within feature branches, created from and merged back into develop 
(where small changes may be made directly)
* When ready to release a set of features/changes, create a release branch from develop, update documentation as 
required and merge into master with a tagged, semantic version (e.g. v1.2.3)
* After each release, the master branch should be merged with develop to restart the process
* High impact bugs can be addressed in hotfix branches, created from and merged into master (then develop) directly

## License

Copyright 2015 NERC BAS.

Unless stated otherwise, all documentation is licensed under the Open Government License - version 3. All code is
licensed under the MIT license.

Copies of these licenses are included within this role.
